what happens when people can't pay their
car bills well I'm not talking about
just one or two people I'm talking about
on a mass scale in today's video we're
going to look at that it's extremely
important to see this for what it really
is you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you we are looking at a
canary in the coal mine right here and
now I'm going to break that down for you
what does it tell us I think it's
important to understand what's happening
in the economy what's going on with the
Federal Reserve and we piece those
things together and make a whole bunch
of sense out of it and you got to
remember that there was a subprime
crisis well there's another one going on
right now we'll talk about that here
let's begin I want to look at what's
going on with electric vehicles I want
to look at what's happening with
people's ability to pay for those
electric vehicles connect that in with
the subprime and of course the wider
auto market there's a lot to connect
here a lot of dots but once we take the
time the energy the old school way to
look at information not in the sound
bite format not in you know YouTube
shorts then we start to realize okay
this makes a lot of sense look at it
even though the current Administration
has been pushing EVS on the public
including an offer of
$7500 subsidy less than 10% of all new
car sales over the past 2 years were
Electric
and so this is important it shows that
while they want to incentivize electric
vehicles they're doing that they're
giving money out it is not going very
well at least according to their plans
they want to get 2030 you're not going
to be able to drive a you know a
standard vehicle anymore they're going
to increase the taxation on it they're
going to make it impossible in some
cases to not be driving um you know
electric vehicles look at some areas no
or you have a regular car you can't
drive in the city center I'm sorry not
going to be allowed the these are the
kind of things that are happening right
now but understand the expenses that
people incur for their vehicles this is
really what it starts to uh highlight
what's happening well the average
payment on a vehicle has been going up
and up and up at the same time how long
people are stretching that out for has
increased as well the debt payments on
these things are
unbelievable the prices of the cars are
going up it's in every single category
inflation you could tack it on here or
there service fees and all these kind of
things but ultimately at the end of the
day it means you got to pay more money
but what happens when you pay too much
for something well then you run into a
big problem I want to show you here we
have
it I thought it was fake but but it's
real give car back searches are at an
alltime high so if you go to Google
Trends you will see this and giv car
back look at it yes that's been going on
for years but more people are doing this
and it shows us that people are trying
to lower their expenses they've been
paying
$11,000 for a car and they're saying
maybe I don't need this thing anymore
maybe there's an alternate maybe I can
walk maybe we can just share a car we
don't need two cars in the house there's
a lot of different things but here it is
that's one indication that's a real
world indication but what about this
subprime autol loan delinquencies hit a
record Prime loans are pristine after
easy money ends the high-risk
high-profit business of subprime Auto
lending what makes it work securitizing
subprime auto loans and selling the
asset back security to yield Hungry
Investors does that sound familiar to
you well of course that's what happened
during the leadup to
2008 you know nobody seems to learn
their lesson unless they learn it the
hard way this is really no different
they're taking debt that people have
they package it up and they sell it off
to investors they say that it's
Diversified because that debt comes from
maybe a range of credit ratings maybe
it's coming some is from Alabama some is
from New York some is from Hawaii who
knows we package it all up and they just
say no not everybody's going to go
bankrupt all at the same time but what
are we seeing right now we're seeing
record high delinquencies this is beyond
2008 and of course I did cover this
recently but I wanted to make it very
clear you could see on the chart right
here sub Prime n Prime Auto Loan 60 plus
days delinquency index going higher than
2008 time frame and noting also Prime
there doesn't seem to be a problem what
we're seeing though is that people are
dipping in to the equity of their home
they've got a lot of equity in that and
so they're pulling that out right now to
be able to fund their expenses so it's
not as if everything is okay there's
Patchwork being done you're seeing the
biggest problems end up in in these
areas which you would expect the
subprime um at the same time we are
watching people using their credit cards
more now than ever before we're seeing
the payday loans we seeing the student
loans of course coming back online right
now all things I've covered before but
now we're connecting the dots and it
tells us something very clear that the
economy is not as strong but why it's
pretty clear that when you increase
interest rates after being addicted like
a drug addict to super low interest
rates for a long time well then
businesses investors and everybody in
between have simply decided that we
can't stand low anything but low
interest rates we have to have it back
and so the demand has been there and
it's been clear that it's unsustainable
unless we bring interest rates down to
zero if interest rates go down to zero
well then what's the expect
for
prices think about that if we do get in
the next year two years if we have the
Curious Case of money printing to
Infinity we can expect that we're going
to have a lot more inflation I know that
there are some that talk about deflation
and we could s certainly have a
deflationary event but that deflation is
met with an equal and opposite Force and
that is inflation so you throw a bunch
of money at it and you kick the can down
the road but not exactly because every
time you print money you devalue the
currency and the general public is worse
off as a result and that's what they
want to do here yet
again I want to talk about the changes
some industry changes electric vehicles
being one of them now I know this is a
Hot Topic
you can see the people who love Tesla
the people who now hate Tesla suddenly
you were talking about Elon Musk are we
talking about getting rid of oil people
are concerned about the jobs what are we
doing here there's a lot it really does
get into some heated arguments sometimes
but let's just look at the details EV
sales are in a slump why aren't more car
buyers going electric and they do get
into some things here Toyota by the way
saying uh you know what we're going to
pull back on this whole idea automakers
are losing money on EVS
overwhelmingly if you look at it whether
it's rivan losing
$338,000 per vehicle that they produce I
just said that correctly
$338,000 per vehicle and so that's a
game you can't win right I mean come on
what are they thinking these businesses
need a re sustainable model why average
Americans aren't buying their electric
cars they're too expensive charging is
expensive charging is inconvenient and
the depreciation range anxiety and so on
I think is my opinion if you're the type
of person that takes your car from home
you drive it to work you drive it back
maybe you go to the store maybe you go
you know one little place here or there
maybe to see a family member on the on
the weekend and all of those distances
are short enough then some people might
say over a longer period of time I'm
going to save money with the EV
incentives with this and that I think
it's
better some would say that it's very
convenient to always be leaving your
house with a full tank sure but there
are definitely some issues you go into
some places there is no capacity for you
to charge so what do you do what if you
do if you get stuck somewhere what do
you do if you're trying to do a road
trip what if you're trying to go up
north to the cottage all these things
these are problems that people will
encounter and they're kind of saying
maybe not so that's really piling up at
the same time there car the cars can be
more expensive that at least you know
depending on what you look at if you
take apples to Apple's comparison you're
going to be paying more upfront and
people don't have that upfront cash
right now uh more alarm bell sound on
slowing demand for electric vehicles you
know there's just more articles about it
a Reuters just talking about the high
interest
rates playing an obvious Factor we know
that this is out of Seeking Alpha
premium and I want to share that with
you Tesla is no longer deserving a
premium price and we've seen the stock
really taken a beating over the last
while um what they're saying here is now
is not the time the third point now is
not the time to pay top dollar for the
promise of future earnings from Air
related projects what I love about
number one what he's talking about here
is something I have said before don't
get into the hype we want to know what
certain what's here and now oh that's
proved okay and you know this is the
expectation over the next few months
okay we can go with that but if it's
something that's like way out into the
future you know we don't have time for
that right now things are tight okay we
we can't do this and at the same time I
like the Seeking Alpha premium I like
anything premium where there's a closed
group Clos Circle simply because I'm not
worried that this guy has to you know
SEO search engine optimize his his
article so that it hits all the right
keywords so the you know the Googles can
pick it up and so on I want to know the
the truth the information I don't want
that bias I want to be able to get
somebody that I can trust as a writer
because they're pulling the right data
for me and so you get that with seeking
out for premium there will be a link in
the description if you want to check
that out very interesting this is about
foxcon you know foxcon they make Apple
iPhone the MacBooks iPads whatever all
that stuff well they have approximately
1.2 million staff foxcon is the third
largest private employer in the World
Behind only Walmart and Amazon and so
they talk about the different sites I
found it to be very interesting um
what's different about this right now is
that they want to produce Vehicles parts
of vehicles or even the whole vehicle
and what they say is they will be able
to produce the vehicle better more
efficiently cheaper faster than what a
traditional manufacturer could do and so
the way that manufacturing is done is
changing and you could see one company
losing a lot of money on it but another
company could be producing that at much
lower levels of course there's economies
have scale there's different reasons for
it but you've got to know what foxcon is
up to you're seeing a lot of these
Chinese EV companies they're struggling
in their own way but they're producing a
lot right now and I think that this
could be one company that might be the
way like where the Outsourcing is the
way that this gets done and they push
this out why do I even say this why
can't we just say no no no eeve is not
going to take off because there are
articles being written saying EVS are a
flop maybe maybe but the way that
they're going the way that they're
moving is they're basically
saying by 2030 if you're not driving an
EV you're going to be
walking I mean that's they're making
some bold statements I don't know if
that's going to be everywhere I don't
think all places are going to go with
that anyway I think it's important just
to see the trend there and what they are
pushing everybody into just be aware of
that okay important stuff at the same
time I just thought it was interesting
uh and related that wind offshore Wind
Farm cancels New Jersey projects as
Industries prospects
dim many of them are just sitting there
they're just doing nothing they're not
producing anything they didn't work out
and of course with any technology this
happens but we've got to be honest about
this and that's why I just wanted to
highlight the fact that don't think that
just because something is part of a new
technology or what have you that you
should be putting your money into it we
need to be smarter that goes for the
green technologies be careful what you
invest in and Ai and all these different
things you got to do your due diligence
there's no question about it if you want
to know about Seeking Alpha if you want
to get the 7-Day free trial go to the
link in the description it's going to
bring you over to my website you can
watch this little video click on that
link and see it for yourself and the
comment of the day I love this comment
of the day thank you very much as always
one of my longtime subscribers here it
is hectic how a dollar costs 14 16 pesos
in Mexico it used to be 20 months ago
and that's so true have we have seen not
just for Mexico but other places versus
the US dollar I mean people are
suffering under inflation it is it's
unbelievable really um and I hope that
you know things calm down things can
clear up but what I expect is more
inflation everywhere just based on the
debt that's out there and how they're
going to fix the problems so be mindful
of that be prepared for that and
understand that this is what the central
banks love to do and they're going to do
it all right I hope you appreciate this
information hit that thumbs up if you
did of course I want to see you back
here tomorrow each and every day I bring
you the latest and greatest see you then
take care